# Future-Idea-Generation


# **Can Large Language Models Unlock Novel Scientific Research Ideas?**

> **Description:** This repository contains the code and data used in the paper titled **"Can Large Language Models Unlock Novel Scientific Research Ideas?
"**. It includes implementations for all the experiments, data preprocessing, and the models presented in the paper.

## **Table of Contents**

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data](#data)
- [Citation](#citation)
- [Paper Image](#paper-image)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## **Introduction**

This repository contains the official code and datasets used in our paper:

> **"Can Large Language Models Unlock Novel Scientific Research Ideas?"**

Published in **EMNLP 2024 Main**.

"An idea is nothing more nor less than a new combination of old elements" (Young, J.W.). The widespread adoption of Large Language Models (LLMs) and publicly available ChatGPT have marked a significant turning point in the integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) into people's everyday lives. This study explores the capability of LLMs in generating novel research ideas based on information from research papers. We conduct a thorough examination of 4 LLMs in five domains (e.g., Chemistry, Computer, Economics, Medical, and Physics). We found that the future research ideas generated by Claude-2 and GPT-4 are more aligned with the author's perspective than GPT-3.5 and Gemini. We also found that Claude-2 generates more diverse future research ideas than GPT-4, GPT-3.5, and Gemini 1.0. We further performed a human evaluation of the novelty, relevancy, and feasibility of the generated future research ideas. This investigation offers insights into the evolving role of LLMs in idea generation, highlighting both its capability and limitations. Our work contributes to the ongoing efforts in evaluating and utilizing language models for generating future research ideas. We make our datasets and codes publicly available.

## **Installation**

1. **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/sandeep82945/Future-Idea-Generation.git
    ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

    Use `pip` to install the required libraries:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

    Alternatively, you can set up using a virtual environment:
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## **Usage**

1. **Prepare your data:**

   If your project requires specific data pre-processing, provide steps here for preparing or loading the data.

2. **Run the experiments:**

   To reproduce the experiments from the paper:
   ```bash
   python main.py --experiment <name>
